NAME
       encode - encode video and/or speech files

SYNOPSIS
       encode [options...]

DESCRIPTION
       This demo uses the Codec Engine to encode data from peripheral device
       drivers to files. Video and speech files are supported. The files
       created will be encoded elementary streams of video or speech.

       You must supply at least one file for the demo to run.

       The DM350MM and CMEM kernel modules need to be inserted for this demo
       to run.  Use the script 'loadmodules_hd.sh' to make sure both kernel
       modules are loaded with adequate parameters.

OPTIONS
       -v <video file>, --videofile <video file>
             Encodes video data to the given file. The file will be created if
             it doesn't exist, and truncated if it does exist. The demo
             detects which type of video file is supplied using the file
             extension. Supported video algorithm is MPEG4 SP, H.264 MP
             (.mpeg4 or .m4v extension, .264).

       -s <speech file>, --speechfile <speech file>
             Encodes speech data to the given file. The file will be created
             if it doesn't exist, and truncated if it does exist. The demo
             detects which type of speech file is supplied using the file
             extension. The only supported speech algorithm as of now is
             G.711 (.g711 extension).

       -y <1-3>, --display_standard <1-3>
             Sets the resolution of the display. If the captured resolution
             is larger than the display it will be center clamped, and if it
             is smaller the image will be centered.

                    1       D1 @ 30 fps (NTSC) [Default]
                    2       D1 @ 25 fps (PAL)
                    3       720P @ 60 fps

       -r <resolution>, --resolution <resolution>
             The resolution of video to encode in the format 'width'x'height'.
             Default is the size of the video standard (720x480 for NTSC,
             720x576 for PAL, 1280x720 for 720P).

       -b <bit rate>, --videobitrate <bit rate>
             This option sets the bit rate with which the video will be
             encoded. Use a negative value for variable bit rate. Default is
             variable bit rate.

       -x, --svideo
             Use s-video video input instead of the composite default.

       -l, --linein
             This option makes the input device for sound recording be the
             'line in' as opposed to the 'mic in' default.

       -k, --keyboard
             Enables the keyboard input mode which lets the user input
             commands using the keyboard in addition to the IR remote control
             interface. At the prompt type 'help' for a list of available
             commands.

       -t <seconds>, --time <seconds>
             The number of seconds to run the demo. Defaults to infinite time.

       -o, --osd
             Enables the On Screen Display for data visualization. If this
             option is not passed, the data will be output to stdout instead.

       -h, --help
             This will print the usage of the demo.

EXAMPLE USAGE
       First execute this script to load kernel modules required:
             ./loadmodules_hd.sh

       General usage:
             ./encode -h
       
       H264 HP video encode only @720p resolution with OSD:
             ./encode -v test.264 -y 3 -o
       
       H264 HP video encode from s-video and G.711 speech encode:
             ./encode -v test.264 -s test.g711 -x

       MPEG4 SP video encode only in CIF NTSC resolution with OSD:
             ./encode -v test.mpeg4 -r 352x240 -o

       MPEG4 SP video encode at 1Mbps with keyboard interface on D1 PAL display:
             ./encode -v test.mpeg4 -b 1000000 -k -y 2


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (c) Texas Instruments Inc 2009

       Use of this software is controlled by the terms and conditions found in
       the license agreement under which this software has been supplied or
       provided.

KNOWN ISSUES

VERSION
       2.0

CHANGELOG
       1.2, 1.3:
             In order to support multiple display resolutions on this platform
             the '-y' flag was added.

             Showing the OSD is now selectable using the '-o' switch. If this
             option is not set the data will be written to stdout.

       1.1:
             Support for removing some of the interlacing artifacts before
             encoding the buffer using the resizer peripheral was added
             (on by default, use the -d option to disable). In order to
             parallelize the resizer processing with the DSP processing the
             video thread was divided into a capture thread and a video
             processing thread.

             The display thread now uses the VPSS resizer peripheral to fill
             the display frame buffers. This change reduces the ARM CPU load
             significantly as memcpy() is no longer used.

       1.0:
             A 'display' thread has been added to show the raw captured
             video being currently encoded on the display while it is being
             encoded. This requires an extra memory copy on the ARM which
             increases the ARM CPU load slightly.

             A 'writer' thread has been added to parallelize the filesystem
             I/O with the DSP algorithm processing.

             The demo now supports encoding arbitrary resolutions using the
             '-r' switch.

             A bit rate parameter was added (-b) to allow the user to change
             bit rate of the video being encoded.

             The demo now has a keyboard interface (-k) which lets
             you input the same commands as you would have input using the
             remote control in the past.

             Added support for s-video video input using the '-x' flag.

SEE ALSO
       For documentation and release notes on the individual components see
       the html files in the host installation directory.
